README.md, before:

# Vrelnir Localization([Degrees of Lewdity](https://gitgud.io/Vrelnir/degrees-of-lewdity))
<a href='https://gitee.com/Number_Sir/vrelnir_localization/stargazers'><img src='https://gitee.com/Number_Sir/vrelnir_localization/badge/star.svg?theme=dark' alt='star'></img></a>
![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/NumberSir/vrelnir_localization?style=social)

## 简介
[黄油翻译小工具 0v0](https://github.com/NumberSir/vrelnir_localization)
1. 获取原仓库最新内容下载到本地
2. 生成对应版本的字典，放在 `raw_dict` 文件夹里
3. 从 `paratranz` 下载最新汉化包 (可能要在 `src/consts.py` 里填你的 `token`, 在个人设置里找)
4. 用最新的汉化包替换自动提取出的汉化包，保存失效值
5. 覆写游戏源文件的汉化 (检查简单的翻译错误如全角逗号: `"，`, 尖括号不对齐: `<< >`)
6. 修改版本号 `chs-x.y.z`
7. 生成供 `i18n` mod 加载的汉化字典包 (默认在 `data/json/i18n.json`)
8. 编译为 `html` 并用默认浏览器运行 (默认在 `degrees-of-lewdity-master`)

## 食用方法
1. 需要 Python 3.10+
2. 在根目录通过 `cmd` 或 `shell` 使用 `pip install -r requirements.txt` 安装依赖库
3. 在 `.env` 里填你的 `token` (`PARATRANZ_TOKEN`), 在 `https://paratranz.cn/users/my` 的设置里找
4. 在 `.env` 里修改版本号 (`CHINESE_VERSION`)
5. 运行 `main.py` (通过 `cmd` 或 `shell` 使用 `python -m main`)

## 关于版本号
汉化版本号的基本结构是 `chs-x.y.z`，如 `chs-alpha1.7.1`

游戏版本号的基本结构是 `{游戏版本号}-chs-{汉化版本号}`，如 `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.1`

汉化版本号的修改遵循如下规则：
1. `alpha` / `beta` / `release` 分别代表：
   - `alpha`: 当前翻译率达到 100%, 可能有漏提取的文本，润色不充分
   - `beta`: 当前翻译率达到 100%, 没有漏提取的文本，润色不充分 
   - `release`: 当前翻译率达到 100%, 没有漏提取的文本，已经充分润色
2. 如果游戏版本号发生破坏性更新：如 `0.4.1` => `0.4.2`, 或 `0.4` -> `0.5`，则汉化版本号重置，如：
   - `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.1` => `0.4.2.4-chs-alpha1.0.0`
3. 如果游戏版本号发生小修小补更新：如 `0.4.1.6` => `0.4.1.7`, 或 `0.4.2.0` => `0.4.2.5`，则汉化版本号第一位加一，如：
   - `0.4.2.4-chs-alpha1.0.0` => `0.4.2.5-chs-alpha2.0.0`
4. 每周五晚九点定期更新，则汉化版本号第二位加一，如：
   - `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.6.0` => `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.0`
5. 出现了导致游戏无法继续进行的恶性问题而临时更新，则汉化版本号末位加一，如：
   - `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.0` => `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.1`
6. 如果打包自用 / 群内用的临时前瞻版，则在汉化版本号后加 `-pre`，如：
   - `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.1` => `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.8.0-pre`

Commit message:

README rough translation to english

README.md, after:

# Vrelnir Localization([Degrees of Lewdity](https://gitgud.io/Vrelnir/degrees-of-lewdity))
<a href='https://gitee.com/Number_Sir/vrelnir_localization/stargazers'><img src='https://gitee.com/Number_Sir/vrelnir_localization/badge/star.svg?theme=dark' alt='star'></img></a>
![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/NumberSir/vrelnir_localization?style=social)

## Introduction
[Translation tool 0v0](https://github.com/NumberSir/vrelnir_localization)
1. Fetch the latest content from the original repository and download it locally
2. Generate the corresponding version dictionary and place it in the `raw_dict` folder
3. Download the latest localization package from `paratranz`. ((You may need to fill in your `token` in `.env`, which can be found in your personal settings).
4. Replace the automatically extracted localization package with the latest one, preserving invalid values.
5. Overwrite the game source files with the localization (checking for simple translation errors such as full-width commas: `"，`, or misaligned angle brackets: `<< >`)
6. Modify the version number to `chs-x.y.z`
7. Generate the localization dictionary package for `i18n` mod loading (default location: `data/json/i18n.json`)
8. Compile to `html` and run with the default browser (default location: `degrees-of-lewdity-master`)

## Usage
1. Requires Python 3.10+
2. Install dependencies via `cmd` or `shell` in root directory: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. Fill `.env` with your `token` (`PARATRANZ_TOKEN`), which can be found at `https://paratranz.cn/users/my`
4. Fill `.env` version number (`CHINESE_VERSION`)
5. Run `main.py` (via `cmd` or `shell` using `python -m main`)

## About Version Numbers
The Chinese localization version follows the format `chs-x.y.z`, e.g., `chs-alpha1.7.1`

The full game version format is `{游戏版本号}-chs-{汉化版本号}`, e.g., `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.1`

Localization versioning follows these rules:
1. `alpha` / `beta` / `release` represent:
   - `alpha`: Current translation is 100% complete, but may contain missing extracted texts or unpolished translations.
   - `beta`: Current translation is 100% complete, no missing extracted texts, but still unpolished.
   - `release`: Current translation is 100% complete, no missing extracted texts, and fully polished.
2. If the game undergoes a major update：e.g., `0.4.1` => `0.4.2`, or `0.4` -> `0.5`, the localization version resets, for example:
   - `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.1` => `0.4.2.4-chs-alpha1.0.0`
3. If the game receives minor updates：e.g., `0.4.1.6` => `0.4.1.7`, or `0.4.2.0` => `0.4.2.5`, the first digit in the localization version increments, for example:
   - `0.4.2.4-chs-alpha1.0.0` => `0.4.2.5-chs-alpha2.0.0`
4. Weekly updates on Friday at 9 PM increase the second digit, for example:
   - `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.6.0` => `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.0`
5. If a critical bug preventing game progress is fixed, the last digit increments, for example:
   - `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.0` => `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.1`
6. If packaging a private/internal preview version, append `-pre`，to the localization version, for example:
   - `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.7.1` => `0.4.1.7-chs-alpha1.8.0-pre`
